# HyMaTZ
HyMaTZ is a program that calculates and displays seismic velocities in the transition zone of the Earth’s mantle. After choosing a compositional model to work with (e.g. pyrolite, harzburgite, mixtures or layers), the user can examine the influence of water by applying experimental or theoretical constraints on how water influences the elastic moduli of Mg2SiO4 polymorphs. The user can also specify a user-preferred water content versus depth profile using a percentage of the maximum storage capacity, or as a customized profile. The output of HyMaTZ (Vp, Vs, dlnV/dP, etc. versus depth) are shown and can be compared with the corresponding outputs from global or regional seismic models. HyMaTZ contains the thermodynamic datasets for a number of compositional models as readable data files already calculated using Perple_X [Connolly, 2005] with the formalism and database of Stixrude and Lithgow-Bertelloni [2011]. Alternatively, the user can also use a user-preferred thermodynamic dataset. A disclaimer must be made here that in the present software version, water is not included as a chemical component in the calculation of the thermodynamic phase diagrams; its effect is only on the thermoelastic properties of the hydrous Mg2SiO4 polymorphs. HyMaTZ is meant as a direct visualization tool for understanding the change in the physics due to water incorporation in the nominally anhydrous minerals, but all the data/output can also be exported for producing customized graphs by the user.   
